Here, we'll look at an overview of how Gaussian Mixture Model Clustering works,
and we'll use the dataset that we talked about in the previous video to do that.
To do this clustering,
we'll need to follow the Expectation-Maximization algorithm
for Gaussian mixtures and that looks like this.
The first step is that we initialize K Gaussian distributions.
K, in this case, in this example is two because we know
there were two original datasets, two original sources.
The second step is to soft-cluster the data into the two Gaussians that we initialized.
This is called the Expectation step or the E step.
The third step is to re-estimate the Gaussians based on the soft clustering.
This is called the Maximization step or M step.
And then in the fourth step,
we evaluate the log likelihood to check for convergence.
If it converges, then that's all good and well.
We return the results.
If it does not, we go back to step two and we reiterate and then we go
over and over again until we converge and we find the two Gaussians that we want.
This is a quick overview of the algorithm.
Let's look at it a little bit more closely in the next video.